#markdown

date: 2026-05-17
type: daily-news
source: newsdata.io
---

# 🗞️ Top 5 News – 2026-05-17

## 1. Venezuela extradites key Maduro ally to the US 'with the help of the CIA' despite being pardoned by Joe Biden
- **Source:** dailymailuk
- **Link:** https://www.dailymail.com/news/article-15824671/venezuela-nicolas-maduro-extradites-alex-saab.html
- **Summary:** Local media reported that the deportation was carried out by the State Department, Department of Justice, CIA and FBI.

## 2. WaPo: Woman Says Her Toddler Would Still Be Alive If ICE Hadn’t Deported Her
- **Source:** twitchy
- **Link:** https://twitchy.com/brettt/2026/05/16/woman-says-her-toddler-would-still-be-alive-if-ice-hadnt-deported-her-n2428265
- **Summary:** "She was deported without her toddler. Then ICE blamed her for his killing." That's the story The Washington Post is...

## 3. If you’re enjoying Tinubu’s policies raise your hand
- **Source:** businessday
- **Link:** https://businessday.ng/life/article/if-youre-enjoying-tinubus-policies-raise-your-hand/
- **Summary:** Are there regular Nigerians who are enjoying the All Progressives Congress, APC, government sin 2015, in particular, the version that read more If you’re enjoying Tinubu’s policies raise your hand

## 4. What happened to the ‘little refugee girl’?: the 102-year-old Holocaust survivor whose story started outside my doorstep
- **Source:** yahoo
- **Link:** https://ca.style.yahoo.com/happened-little-refugee-girl-102-030027735.html
- **Summary:** For years, I polished the brass plaques in front of my apartment dedicated to a Jewish mother and daughter who were murdered by the Nazis. Then a message out of the blue connected me to a surviving child ...

## 5. What happened to the ‘little refugee girl’?: the 102-year-old Holocaust survivor whose story started outside my doorstep
- **Source:** theguardiantheguardian
- **Link:** https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2026/may/17/102-year-old-holocaust-survivor-berlin-australia-friendship-brass-plaques
- **Summary:** For years, I polished the brass plaques in front of my apartment dedicated to a Jewish mother and daughter who were murdered by the Nazis. Then a message out of the blue connected me to a surviving child ... At the grand, biblical age of 102, Sonja Ibermann Cowan has zero interest in wasting her time. There are delicious great-grandbabies to be serenaded, uproarious meals to share with her three beloved daughters, and meaningful celebrations of the high holidays to mark with her Melbourne rabbi, who makes house calls. Five years ago, she decided to invest some of that precious time in what became a friendship with me, across the world in Berlin, her birthplace. The boredom of the pandemic certainly played a part. Cooped up at home under much stricter Covid-19 restrictions than we had in Germany – Sonja joked about being “ eingesperrt” (locked up) – she and her extended close-knit family started turning their attention to the past. Her grandson Benjamin Preiss, a journalist at the Australian newspaper The Age, embarked on an ambitious research project to uncover the mysteries of Sonja’s life and her mother’s and sister’s murders in the Holocaust. Continue reading...

