#markdown

date: 2026-05-20
type: daily-news
source: newsdata.io
---

# 🗞️ Top 5 News – 2026-05-20

## 1. 'Hero': Slain security guard of California mosque engaged gunmen in shootout
- **Source:** geo
- **Link:** https://www.geo.tv/latest/665251-hero-slain-security-guard-of-california-mosque-engaged-gunmen-in-shootout
- **Summary:** A video monitor shows images of Mansour Kaziha, security guard Amin Abdullah, also known to friends as Brian Climax and Nadir Awad, who were killed during a shooting attack at the Islamic Centre of San Diego, during a news conference at police headquarters in San Diego, California, US May...

## 2. Deutsche EuroShop's (ETR:DEQ) Profits May Not Reveal Underlying Issues
- **Source:** yahoo
- **Link:** https://ca.finance.yahoo.com/news/deutsche-euroshops-etr-deq-profits-045550168.html
- **Summary:** Deutsche EuroShop AG's ( ETR:DEQ ) robust recent earnings didn't do much to move the stock. However the statutory...

## 3. Andy Garcia's LA noir 'Diamond' reaches Cannes after two decades in the making
- **Source:** aaj_tv
- **Link:** https://english.aaj.tv/news/330459260/andy-garcias-la-noir-diamond-reaches-cannes-after-two-decades-in-the-making
- **Summary:** Cuban‐born Hollywood actor Andy Garcia’s passion project, “Diamond,” screened at the Cannes Film Festival on Tuesday, some two decades ​after the “Ocean’s Eleven” star first conceived the idea while helping his ‌daughter with a school assignment. Garcia directed and stars in the noir-inspired film that follows private detective Joe Diamond, who is hired by femme fatale widow Sharon Cobbs, played by ​Vicky Krieps, to investigate the murder of a wealthy businessman. US actors Bill ​Murray and Dustin Hoffman also have roles as side characters. When ⁠the 70-year-old who also wrote and produced the film learned it was going ​to screen out of competition at the festival, he said he could not ​have been happier. Saying the film was like his child, Garcia told Reuters: “It’s the greatest gift in the world to celebrate your child’s achievement.” Known for roles in films such as “The Godfather: ​Part III” and “When a Man Loves a Woman,” the Oscar-nominated actor has ​built a decades-long career in Hollywood both in front of and behind the camera. “Diamond” is ‌his second ⁠fictional feature as a director after 2005’s “The Lost City,” a movie about pre-communist Cuba that also took years to bring to the screen and features Murray and Hoffman. Although “Diamond” is set in modern-day Los Angeles, the detective and others ​around him are dressed ​as if they ⁠are in the past. The concept traces back 20 years to when Garcia helped his daughter with a homework assignment ​for which she had to write a noir short story, ​and she ⁠got stuck. “I improvised this character and scenes and stories and inner monologues just like in an hour, and it just sat there in my memory,” he ⁠recalled. “I ​kept going back to it because of the ​love of the genre and just like, ‘Who is this guy? What’s he doing in L.A. dressed up?”

## 4. Taiwan's Lai rejects China pressure, pledges stronger defense
- **Source:** dw
- **Link:** https://www.dw.com/en/taiwan-s-lai-rejects-china-pressure-pledges-stronger-defense/a-77223363?maca=en-rss-en-top-1022-rdf
- **Summary:** Lai Ching-te defended Taiwan's sovereignty after US President Donald Trump suggested that arms sales to the island could be used as leverage in talks with China.

## 5. Man finds Rs 57.11 crore lottery ticket in old pants days before expiry: 'Many unclaimed tickets...'
- **Source:** moneycontrol
- **Link:** https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/trends/man-finds-rs-57-11-crore-lottery-ticket-in-old-pants-days-before-expiry-many-unclaimed-tickets-13924745.html
- **Summary:** A man from New Jersey narrowly avoided losing a fortune after discovering a forgotten Pick 6 lottery ticket worth $5.9 million (approximately Rs 57.11 crore) hidden inside an old pair of pants just days before its expiry.

