#markdown

date: 2026-02-13
type: daily-news
source: newsdata.io
---

# 🗞️ Top 5 News – 2026-02-13

## 1. US Embassy in Dhaka congratulates Bangladesh and BNP on election victory
- **Source:** tbsnews_net
- **Link:** https://www.tbsnews.net/bangladesh-election-2026/us-embassy-dhaka-congratulates-bangladesh-and-bnp-election-victory-1360391
- **Summary:** In a post on its official Facebook page, the embassy praised Bangladeshi voters for their participation in the electoral process and expressed readiness to deepen bilateral ties under the new leadership

## 2. 'Relationship With China Very Good Now': Trump Confirms Meeting With Xi Jinping In April
- **Source:** abplive
- **Link:** https://news.abplive.com/news/world/relationship-with-china-very-good-now-trump-confirms-meeting-with-xi-jinping-in-april-1826847
- **Summary:** United States President Donald Trump on Friday confirmed that he will meet Chinese President Xi Jinping in April this year, while the latter is expected to visit the United States later this year. Trump also claimed that the relationship between US and China is "very good now".“I’ll be visiting President Xi Jinping in April. He’s coming here later in the year, and I look forward to it. Our relationship with China is very good right now," Trump said while addressing reporters. The exact date of travel is yet to be mentioned by the US administration.In a recent interview with NBC, Trump reiterated that he would travel to China in April. "I'm gonna be going there in April then he's coming here toward the end of the year," Trump said.The interview, taped on February 4, also included remarks about Xi’s expected visit to Washington."He's coming to the White House, toward the end of the year. We have a very good relationship. And, you know, it's important that I have a good relationship and for him, that he has a good relationship with me. We have to have a good -- these are the two most powerful countries in the world and we have a very good relationship," Trump said.Trump and Xi held a 90-minute telephone conversation on February 4, wherein the two leaders discussed trade issues, but did not cover other geopolitical matters such as Iran or Ukraine. The call "resulted in a very positive conclusion for both Countries," Trump wrote on Truth Social."During the conversation, President Xi graciously invited the First Lady and me to visit China, and I reciprocated. As Presidents of two Great Nations, this is something that we both look forward to doing," the US President added.China’s state-run news agency Xinhua reported that Xi emphasised the importance he places on China-US relations during the call. According to the report, Xi said that over the past year he and Trump had maintained sound communication and held a successful meeting in Busan that set the course for bilateral ties.According to a readout from China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Xi called on the United States and China to "seek win-win results in the spirit of equality and respect each other's concerns," and urged Washington to "remove the negative measures taken against China."

## 3. After Rajeev Shukla, Shashi Tharoor Flags Viral AI Video Praising Pakistan Over T20 Boycott, Says ‘Neither My Language...’
- **Source:** newsx
- **Link:** https://www.newsx.com/world/after-rajeev-shukla-shashi-tharoor-flags-viral-ai-video-praising-pakistan-over-ind-vs-pak-t20-boycott-says-neither-my-language-bcci-vp-icc-166051/
- **Summary:** The AI generated video which falsely depicted Congress MP Shashi Tharoor praising Pakistan for its T20 World Cup boycott went viral. The congress MP explained that the video was fake.

## 4. Pakistan PM Sharif going for Trump's Board of Peace meeting in Washington, India ‘reviewing' US invitation to join
- **Source:** hindustantimes
- **Link:** https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-pm-shehbaz-sharif-going-for-trumps-board-of-peace-meeting-india-still-reviewing-us-invitation-101770947806686.html
- **Summary:** “We have received an invitation from the US govt to join. We are currently considering this proposal and reviewing it,” Indian spokesperson said.

## 5. Pakistan Says It Contacted US Over Map Showing POK as Part of India; Welcomes Deletion as 'Correction'
- **Source:** republicworld
- **Link:** https://www.republicworld.com/world-news/pakistan-says-it-contacted-us-over-map-showing-pok-as-part-of-india-welcomes-deletion-as-correction
- **Summary:** Islamabad contacted the US after a map from the US Trade Representative showed Kashmir, including Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Aksai Chin, as part of India. The US deleted the map but hasn't clarified the removal's cause.

