#markdown

date: 2026-03-23
type: daily-news
source: newsdata.io
---

# 🗞️ Top 5 News – 2026-03-23

## 1. “Unbelievable”: Coach Jim Justice on the Lady Spartans Magical 2026 Championship Season
- **Source:** wvdn
- **Link:** https://wvdn.com/191165/
- **Summary:** LEWISBURG- “The likelihood of us running the table with the schedule we had, was zero.” Those were the first words spoken by Greenbrier East Lady Spartans basketball coach and U.S. Senator Jim Justice in an interview session over the weekend. But now that the exact obstacle is cleared, Justice could not be prouder of his [...] The post “Unbelievable”: Coach Jim Justice on the Lady Spartans Magical 2026 Championship Season appeared first on West Virginia Daily News .

## 2. Starmer and Trump discuss need to reopen Hormuz Strait
- **Source:** kahawatungu
- **Link:** https://kahawatungu.com/starmer-and-trump-discuss-need-to-reopen-hormuz-strait/
- **Summary:** Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer and US President Donald Trump have discussed the need to reopen the Strait of Hormuz in a call about the ongoing Middle East conflict. Traffic through the strait – one of the world’s busiest shipping lanes – has slowed down by about 95% since the Iran war began on 28 [...] The post Starmer and Trump discuss need to reopen Hormuz Strait appeared first on Kahawatungu .

## 3. Majority of Japanese Oppose Sending Warships to Middle East
- **Source:** financialpost
- **Link:** https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-pmn/majority-of-japanese-oppose-sending-warships-to-middle-east
- **Summary:** A majority of Japanese people oppose sending warships to the Middle East in response to the war in Iran, according to two polls conducted over the weekend amid continued US pressure on allies to help secure the Strait of Hormuz.

## 4. As Trump's 48-hour Hormuz deadline nears, Iranians dread the darkness
- **Source:** economictimes_indiatimes
- **Link:** https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/defence/as-trumps-48-hour-hormuz-deadline-nears-iranians-dread-the-darkness/articleshow/129741827.cms
- **Summary:** Iranians face growing dread as President Trump threatens to strike power plants. Such an attack could plunge the nation of 90 million into darkness, disrupting essential services like water, healthcare, and communication. Citizens are anxious about the potential escalation of conflict and its devastating impact on their lives. The situation remains tense as the deadline approaches.

## 5. Live updates: U.S. Central Command leader says Iran campaign is ‘ahead or on plan'
- **Source:** nbcdfw
- **Link:** https://www.nbcdfw.com/news/national-international/the-latest-us-central-command-leader-says-iran-campaign-is-ahead-or-on-plan/3999894/
- **Summary:** Smoke and flames rise from an Israeli airstrike that hit the Qasmiyeh Bridge near the coastal city of Tyre, Lebanon, Sunday, March 22, 2026.

