#markdown

date: 2026-06-25
type: daily-news
source: newsdata.io
---

# 🗞️ Top 5 News – 2026-06-25

## 1. ‘No ulterior motive behind social media regulations for children’ – AG
- **Source:** kaieteurnewsonline
- **Link:** https://kaieteurnewsonline.com/2026/06/25/no-ulterior-motive-behind-social-media-regulations-for-children-ag/
- **Summary:** (Kaieteur News) – Attorney General and Minister of Legal Affairs Anil Nandlall, SC, has assured the general public that there are no ulterior motives behind the planned social media regulations that will be implemented for children, stressing that it is merely for their safety. Speaking on Tuesday night’s episode of ‘Issues in the News’ Nandlall explained [...] The post ‘No ulterior motive behind social media regulations for children’ – AG appeared first on Kaieteur News .

## 2. Looking at greenery soothes our souls. And the reason is biology
- **Source:** toi
- **Link:** https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/home-garden/looking-at-greenery-soothes-our-souls-and-the-reason-is-biology/articleshow/131982094.cms
- **Summary:** Looking at greenery soothes our souls. And the reason is biology

## 3. Tamil Nadu CM Vijay’s wife Sangeetha and daughter spotted at a running race event, video goes viral
- **Source:** moneycontrol
- **Link:** https://www.moneycontrol.com/entertainment/tamil-nadu-cm-vijay-s-wife-sangeetha-and-daughter-spotted-at-a-running-race-event-video-goes-viral-article-13958331.html
- **Summary:** A heartwarming video featuring Thalapathy Vijay's wife Sangeetha and daughter Sasha has surfaced online and is rapidly gaining attention on social media.

## 4. Scientists Found a Wordle Trick That Solves 99% of Puzzles
- **Source:** scitechdaily
- **Link:** https://scitechdaily.com/scientists-found-a-wordle-trick-that-solves-99-of-puzzles/
- **Summary:** Researchers turned a classic theory of information into a near-perfect Wordle strategy that solves 99% of puzzles. Millions of people play Wordle every day, trying to identify a hidden five-letter word in six guesses or fewer. Now, researchers at Binghamton University, State University of New York, have developed a mathematical approach that can solve the [...]

## 5. Pochettino on risk US players on yellow cards in final group match
- **Source:** yahoo
- **Link:** https://sports.yahoo.com/articles/pochettino-risk-us-players-yellow-042726876.html
- **Summary:** United States coach Mauricio Pochettino said he will make changes to his starting line-up for the final World Cup group stage match against Turkey on Thursday due to the risk of yellow card suspensions. "I think it's an easy answer for the guys that have yellow cards," Pochettino said Wednesday during a news conference.

